The Government of Canada regularly publishes reports
to keep Canadians informed on its spending and on the results it achieves
using public funds.
As a manager,
it's unlikely that you will be required to write these reports yourself.
However, the work you do may be included in these reports.
For example, you may be asked to report on how well your
programs achieved their intended results.
As such, you must continuously track your performance
and results and compare them with what was planned.
Let’s do a quick activity to get more familiar with the terminology!
Fiscal year-end is when reporting closes
the loop on work plans within the organization,
and when we present globally,
the results we achieved in the Departmental Results Report.
As the fiscal year is a cycle,
last year’s results will inform planning for the next fiscal year.
You need to demonstrate how your performance compares with
what you set out in your work plan,
and explain any variances.
In most departments, your Planning or Finance section
will reach out to you to request this information.
Demonstrating your performance
means showing whether you met the indicators as set out in the PIPs,
the performance information profiles.
These identify more concretely each program’s core responsibility
and results to be achieved.
Some departments review performance information profiles
throughout the year to see if targets are on track
or at risk of not being achieved.
In the next activity, you will have the opportunity to practise reporting
on whether your targets were met.
Let’s take what you have learned into real life.
Look up your organization’s performance information profiles
and its external reports, such as the Departmental Results Report.
Your organization will have their own ways
of doing financial situation reports,
and reporting on spending and results.
Talk to your Finance or Planning section
and your director.
Ask them:
What do we call our financial situation reports, and what do they look like?
Where can I find them?
How frequently do we prepare them?
Do we complete these reports in the financial system or in a spreadsheet?
What is my role?
And, what information will I provide to feed into external reports?
Let’s try this quiz to see what you remember
from the Report section.